---
title: "JavaScript30 - Day 18"
date: 2017-06-20 19:10:00 +0200
comments: true
tags:
- javascript
- js
- learning
- javascript30
excerpt: "Day 18 of #javascript30 is about adding up playing times for videos using reduce(), some math, and a data attribute."
---
Day 18 of [#javascript30](https://javascript30.com) is about adding up playing times for videos using [reduce()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/Reduce?v=example), some math, and a data attribute.

## More compact code
I tend to prefer readable code over terse code, but I think I am starting to really like the one- or two-liners you can make with JavaScript. This assignment could be solved with just `reduce()` and some math after the reduce().
Here is code that goes trough all items with a time data attribute and adds up the seconds:
```js
const lis = Array.from(document.querySelectorAll('[data-time]'));
const totalSeconds = lis.reduce((total, li) => {
  const [minutes, seconds] = li.dataset.time.split(':').map(i => parseInt(i, 10));
  return total + (minutes * 60) + seconds;
}, 0);
```
That is actually pretty neat I think. Much better than a bunch of loops like I would have done it in the past. An interesting side effect from doing all this thorough learning of JavaScript is that I get "inspiration" that I use in PHP everyday now. I have started using `filter()`, `map()`, `reduce()`, and `sort()` more in PHP and it makes for better code there too.

## "Casting" with `parseInt()` and `parseFloat()`
In JavaScript the string concatenation operator is '`+`'. So it's not easy for JS to know what you want if you say this for instance:
```js
console.log(23 + '01');
```
Do you mean "2301" or "24"? JS will assume the first, so you have to "cast" your variable to something that is a number.
You might have noticed in the code snippet above that I pass a second argument to [parseInt()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/parseInt). This is because if you have numbers that start with a '`0`', then parseInt assumes that it is either octal or decimal (this depends on the browser) if you don't specify the 'radix'. A radix is the mathematical numeral system eg. '10' like our ten-based. This is a perfect source of errors, so _always_ pass the second parameter to parseInt.

I could have used [parseFloat()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/parseFloat) that does not take the radix argument but this is a good gotcha and I like being precise.
